---
date: 2024-10-19
title: "Articles Read - 2024-10-19"
slug: reads-2024-10-19
---



* [How I use Git][1]
  * It was interesting to see the git workflow for somebody else
  * I must say, isn't quite different from mine. Here are a few slight variations, though:
    * I don't have any aliases. I prefer explicit command, so that I know what I am typing
    * I don't use [squash-merge][2] strategy, so I pay a lot more attention to the commit messages
  * Other notes
    * Interesting point about the demo video. Might be useful for reviewers to get an understanding of how the changes were tested
    * Can't emphasize enough of this point - *Before I ask someone to review my PR, I read through the diff on the pull request page myself. Something about it being not in your editor makes you spot more bugs and left-over print statements.*
      * It still befuddles me that so many people still create PRs and straight away send it for review
    * *When I review someone elses code, I always try to check out the code and run it and test that it actually does what the pull request message says. You’d be surprised by how often it doesn’t.*
      * As long as the team is aligned to do this, this should be really good way to keep the quality in check.
      * At the same time, it can be a little laborious

* [Accountability sinks][3]
  * And the fact that, people are bloodlessly following the AI train, accountability is just put aside.
  * The consequences of the failed projects will mostly be blamed with more lay-offs, while all people who should be put to account, are easily getting away to find the next hype train.
  > No one at Fox seems to have explicitly made a decision to lie about voting machines; rather, there was an implicit understanding that they had to do whatever it took to keep their audience numbers up. At some point, someone had declared (or else strongly implied) that audience metrics were the only thing that mattered, and every subsequent decision followed out from that.
    * Summarizes the same thing for organizations. Leadership felt AI is the solution of all their problems, without even realizing if they need it in the first place or not.
    * No feedback from the people who will be building AI solutions, and have a better understanding of the problems and how this AI technology works.

* [Drag to Select][4]
  * Setting the code aside, the article shows how a simple problem/idea develops from the initial code, all the way to the final solution, and all various considerations on the way
  * How the thought process and considerations, gets incorporated into the code gradually



  [1]: https://registerspill.thorstenball.com/p/how-i-use-git
  [2]: https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/configuring-pull-request-merges/configuring-commit-squashing-for-pull-requests
  [3]: https://aworkinglibrary.com/writing/accountability-sinks
  [4]: https://www.joshuawootonn.com/react-drag-to-select
