---
date: "2024-10-18"
title: "Story Points are Pointless, Measure Queues"
slug: "story-points-are-pointless-measure-queues"
tags: [ team, workplace, culture, agile ]
---



## Source - [brightball.com][1]

## Notes
* I also have been questioning the whole story points, and this presents a very different approach

> Queues are the root cause of economic waste in product development - Donald Reinertsen

### TL;DR

* Story points are completely unreliable, confusing and require constantly reminding everyone involved what they are and are not.
* Lower point values are more precise while high point values represent a range assuming higher variability. These cannot be added together accurately.
* Story points do not represent Time, yet the Velocity metric they are usually combined with defacto converts them to time, sabotaging everyone from the start by doing the thing that you can't do with a precise number and a range...adding them together.
* Problems with story points are well known, yet their usage persists because alternative estimating techniques suffer from similar pitfalls.
* Estimation in software is hard and the outputs on the process are typically not beneficial for the inputs they require.
* Smaller teams with no likely interruptions will seem to estimate accurately, giving the impression that whatever you are doing is working in many cases.
* When capacity is fully utilized, variability of all work will spike creating a quicksand effect to every estimate and timeline.
* Measured Queues address short term and long term estimation issues, handle scope changes naturally and provide a much more valuable exercise to larger teams while removing uncertainty from the team's initial plans.
* Measured Queues also provide a leading indicator of problems 20 times faster than Velocity or Cycle Time related metrics.



   [1]: https://www.brightball.com/articles/story-points-are-pointless-measure-queues
