---
date: 2024-10-20
title: "Articles Read - 2024-10-20"
slug: reads-2024-10-20
---



* [Introducing the prompt() Function: Use the Power of LLMs with SQL!][1]
  * Yeah, doesn't surprise me at all to see this. Database tables are already structured, validated and refined. So, of course, you need a LLM to give you more context about this data.
  * This example is just funny. Why can't you just do this from any other LLM integration
    ```sql
    SELECT prompt('Write a poem about ducks', ‘gpt-4o’) AS response;
    ```
  * Also, your junior developer does this and your OpenAI bill goes over the roof
    ```sql
    -- Table with 1 Million rows
    SELECT prompt('summarize the comment in a Haiku: ' || text) AS summary
    FROM sample_data.hn.hacker_news -- Skips LIMIT clause
    ```

* [What You Still Can’t Say at Work][2]
  * Examples
    * “I’m not motivated to work harder or innovate when you and your bosses get most of the credit and all the bonus money.”
    * “Employee engagement is low because key leaders aren’t trusted or respected and nothing serious gets done about that.”
    * “I can’t make good decisions unless you and your bosses are more transparent with financial or strategic details.”
    * “I think we’re growing and making enough money right now.”
  * Why?
    > At most organizations — my own included — history and culture mean that certain statements draw negative knee-jerk reactions. And I fear that this is getting worse because we live in a world where language is weaponized to shut down serious discussion as soon as someone feels threatened. For example, in the U.S., all you have to do to shut down a serious discussion about some aspects of our capitalist system is to call the speaker a “socialist” or “communist.” Conversation over. Deep rules kept intact.
  * To Drive Change
    * Discuss the undiscussables - There is no beating behind the bush
    * Fix the follies - Ask people to tell you about the organization’s follies
    * Explore the “veil fails.” - You can tell whether something is fair by considering it from behind a “veil of ignorance” wherein you don’t consider your status among the people affected.

* [Standing desks do not reduce risk of stroke and heart failure, study suggests][3]
  * I had my doubts about standing desks earlier, and now science backs it
  * You need to have a [treadmill under your desk][4] if you are not doing any other physical activity



  [1]: https://motherduck.com/blog/sql-llm-prompt-function-gpt-models/
  [2]: https://sloanreview.mit.edu/article/what-you-still-cant-say-at-work/
  [3]: https://www.theguardian.com/society/2024/oct/16/standing-desks-may-be-bad-for-your-health-study-suggests
  [4]: https://www.christophtrappe.com/how-to-use-a-small-under-desk-treadmill/
