---
date: "2011-07-26"
title: "Custom order for SQL Query results in Oracle"
slug: "custom-order-for-sql-query-results-in-oracle"
tags: [ tips-and-tricks, sql, oracle ]
---



One thing that I surely believe is ["Necessities drive Innovation"][1]. But, one has to think different at crucial times to be innovative. Well, that’s not a subject of discussion for this. But it does originate from that idea.

Just before our monthly release and when everything is all prepared, we found a bug in the code. 😤😱😩 GOD, how many times we test, they somehow find their way to get in code. Anyways, we needed something which required no code changes as the code is already delivered. We only had database with us to play.

Basically our problem was, we needed the first record from the set of two records based on a values in `VARCHAR` field. That means, we needed to apply some ordering to the records based on the values. But, `ORDER BY` only supports Alphabetic ordering on the values.

But, that’s what we generally know. Because we wanted to order the records in the manner we specify, we had to look for some solution. And we did find an interesting stuff at [jmatrix.net][2] that allows us to specify the ordering criteria in `ORDER BY` clause.

What we can do is, based on the values, we can give an alternate value using [`DECODE()`][3] function in Oracle.

So lets say you have a column for storing the status of the records for employees. The probable values are `'ACTIVE', 'INACTIVE', 'TRANSFERRED', 'BLOCKED'` and lets say you want to sort the records first fetched with these statuses based on your own criteria. Say, `INACTIVE` should come first, then `TRANSFERRED`, then `BLOCKED`, and finally `ACTIVE`.

Now, normal `ORDER BY` won't allow that, but here is how you can do this with [`DECODE()`][3]

```sql
SELECT empno, ename, salary, status
FROM emp
ORDER BY
DECODE (STATUS, 'INACTIVE',    'a',
                'TRANSFERRED', 'b',
                'BLOCKED',     'c',
                'ACTIVE',      'd')
```

So, you have your custom order for the `ORDER BY` clause. Hope, it solves some of your requirements like mine. 😀

> **Note:** The `emp` table does not contain a `status` column as such. Its hypothetical and used to illustrate the example.



   [1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Necessity_is_the_mother_of_invention
   [2]: http://jmatrix.net/dao/case/case.jsp?case=7F000001-1E1DADB-11CF7AA3002-C41
   [3]: https://oracle-base.com/articles/misc/null-related-functions#decode
