---
date: 2012-09-03
title: Make Tomcat Production Ready
slug: make-tomcat-production-ready
tags: [ developer, tips, java, tomcat ]
---



I recently attended a training for [Tomcat][1] Performance, and it was something really wonderful. The instructor gave insights to a lot of things that a developer should keep into mind while coding.

At the very end of the session, he gave us things that one should look out to make [Tomcat][1] ready for Production usage.

## Increase the Heap Size

You can decide on this parameter based on how heavy your application is. You can configure these values in `setenv.sh` in the `bin/` directory of your tomcat installation. Also, make sure these values are same so that the JVM does not have to spend time processing for shrinking and growing of the [Heap Size][2]. Check more details [here][3].

```bash
export CATALINA_OPTS="-Xms512M -Xmx1024M"
```

## Use multiple Concurrent-Mark-Sweep-GC

If your application is very heavy and you occasionally face [OutOfMemory error][4], try setting the [`-XX:+UseConcMarkSweepGC`][5] option. This enables to run multiple (default 2) [Concurrent Mark Sweep Garbage Collector][5] so that your [Tenured Space][2] gets cleaned up more often.

> A word of caution before using this option: Use this only as a temporary fix. If you application is running out of memory very soon, you need to do a memory analysis of your application to find the memory leaks. Read the Official Document for [GC Tuning here][6].

## Dump Garbage Collector (GC) Details

Another configuration which needs to be set in `setenv.sh`. Taking the heap dump and gc dump in a file when out of memory occurs, will give you the snapshot of the JVM memory at the time of error. You can analyze more on the snapshot to locate the actual root cause. Enable this feature using below:

```bash
-XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError -XX:+PrintGCDetails -XX:+PrintGCTimeStamps -verbose:gc -Xloggc:/tmp/gc.log
```

## Increasing the Number of Worker Threads

By default, [Tomcat][1] comes bundled with default configuration of **200 worker threads**. These worker threads correspond to number of request which Tomcat can serve at a point of time. If your application is going to serve a lot more requests than 200, you need to change it.

This is the attribute `maxThreads` for your `Connector` tag in `server.xml` inside `conf/` directory. Refer to the full documentation of `Connector` attribute [list here][7].

## Keep the Memory Limits to be Same

As mentioned in 1st point, best practice is to keep the minimum sizes and maximum sizes of the memory specifications to be same. This allows to remove the burden of JVM to monitor shrinking and growing of Heap. Fixed size will allocate the Heap Size initially and JVM is out of picture.

## Memory Parameters for YoungGen Space, Survivor Space and PermGen Space

Read the full specification for the below parameters [here][8] and [here][9].

```bash
-XX:NewRatio=3 -XX:NewSize=32m -XX:MaxNewSize=32m -XX:SurvivorRatio=6 -XX:MaxPermSize=64m
```

## Disable Console Logging

By default, the [Tomcat][1] logs are output to console as well as log files inside `log/` directory. On Production environments, you would ideally require only file logging and there is no need for console logging. You need to disable the `Console Appender` in `log4j.properties` in the `conf/` directory.

Also, there are logs generated for `manager` and `host-manager` apps. Do not forget to remove the appender configurations for these as well because they too are not going to have any information related to your app.

Finally, the file appender used for tomcat logging is `DailyRollingFileAppender`. Instead of this, use `RollingFileAppender` with `maxBackIndex` and `maxFileSize` properties. This will allow only limited set of logs to be generated with which you can log enough details for any error that might occur.

Here is a sample configuration for `RollingFileAppender`.

```properties
log4j.appender.R=org.apache.log4j.RollingFileAppender
log4j.appender.R.File=example.log
log4j.appender.R.MaxFileSize=100KB
log4j.appender.R.MaxBackupIndex=7
log4j.appender.R.layout=org.apache.log4j.PatternLayout
log4j.appender.R.layout.ConversionPattern=%p %t %c - %m%n
```

## Remove unnecessary Apps

[Tomcat][1] comes bundled with a lot of example applications. These are available in the `webapps/` directory. On Production environments, these are not required and hence you can remove the same.

## Use Valves

A less known feature of [Tomcat][1], yet so powerful. These [valves][10] are similar to plugins in your tomcat which allows you to do pretty interesting things. A `Valve` element represents a component that will be inserted into the request processing pipeline.

Say for example, a hacker tries to pull down your site by flooding request to your tomcat server. With the host which is making so much of requests, you can ban those requests in tomcat using [`org.apache.catalina.valves.RemoteAddrValve`][11]. Check out [the list is of Valves][12] that gets shipped with Tomcat.

And that’s not all. If you think you can build one of your own, go ahead and give something back to the community.

## Use Load Balancing

Sometimes your request load is so large that you tomcat keeps crashing all the time. You might think of having multiple tomcats with a load balancer. Check out [load balancing documentation here][13].

## Changes in web.xml

Apart from the `web.xml` for each application, Tomcat itself has a `web.xml` for configuration of JSP and Servlet processing. There are some configuration which you need to set for Production environment.

The entire documentation for the same is here.
* `fork` – This specifies whether the compilation of the JSP will be done in a new JVM or not. Make sure this is set to true. You would not want the compilation of the JSP to be done in the same JVM as the running tomcat.
* `development` – Specifies whether the Tomcat is running in Development mode or not. Make sure this value is set to false
* `checkInterval` – This is the interval after which the JSPs are checked for any modification and new compilation unit needs to be generated. Usually for Production environments, the deployments are not ad-hoc and manually done. They are scheduled and done with deployment tools like [Ant][14] or [Maven][15]. Thus, you don’t need to be checking the JSPs for any modification. Free the tomcat from this task so that it focuses more on request handling.

## Enable Compression for Response

Last but not the least, enable compression for the response output that you send out to the browser. This will enable faster transmission for responses to the clients thereby increasing usability of your application. Here is how you do it in `server.xml`

```xml
<Connector
    acceptcount="100"
    compressablemimetype="text/html,text/xml"
    compression="on"
    compressionminsize="2048"
    nocompressionuseragents="gozilla, traviata"
    port="8080"
    redirectport="8443" />
```

Hope this helps you setting up your Tomcat next time. And also, if you have set it up already, check out what you missed. 🙂



   [1]: https://tomcat.apache.org/
   [2]: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/vm/gctuning/sizing.html
   [3]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6897476/tomcat-7-how-to-set-initial-heap-size-correctly
   [4]: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/troubleshoot/memleaks002.html
   [5]: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/vm/gctuning/cms.html
   [6]: https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/gc-tuning-5-138395.html
   [7]: https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-5.5-doc/config/http.html
   [8]: https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/gc-tuning-5-138395.html#0.0.0.0.%20Young%20Generation%20Guarantee%7Coutline
   [9]: https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/tech/vmoptions-jsp-140102.html
  [10]: https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-5.5-doc/config/valve.html
  [11]: https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-5.5-doc/config/valve.html#Remote_Address_Filter
  [12]: https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-5.5-doc/config/valve.html
  [13]: https://tomcat.apache.org/connectors-doc/generic_howto/loadbalancers.html
  [14]: https://ant.apache.org/
  [15]: https://maven.apache.org/
