---
date: "2025-01-04"
title: "History of WebRTC"
slug: "history-of-webrtc"
tags: [ web-rtc, web, history, technology ]
---



## Source - [webrtcforthecurious.com][1]

## Notes
*  In October 1992, Ron Frederick began experimenting with network videoconferencing tool "nv" based on IP multicast, aiming for a factor of 20 compression for video data.
* In November 1992, "nv" was used to videocast parts of the November Internet Engineering Task Force, reaching approximately 200 subnets in 15 countries.
* In March 1993, a version of "nv" was released with a new wavelet-based compression scheme and support for color video.
* In May 1993, "nv" added support for video compression algorithms developed by others and CUSeeMe format.
* In July 1994, the last publicly released version of "nv" was version 3.3beta, with unfinished RTPv2 support.
* In 1994, the framework provided in "nv" went on to become the basis of videoconferencing in the "Jupiter multi-media MOO" project at Xerox PARC.
* In the late 90s, Marratech was founded by a team including Serge Lachapelle, focusing on group video conferencing using multicast networking.
* In 2007, Marratech was acquired by Google, and Serge Lachapelle went on to work on Gmail voice and video chat using NPAPI and licensing components from GIPS and Vidyo.
* In 2010, the Chrome project started with the goal of making real-time communication experiences easier and more accessible, leading to the development of WebRTC.
* WebRTC was born with the motivations of simplifying RTC experiences, making human communication unhampered and open, and prioritizing security.



   [1]: https://webrtcforthecurious.com/docs/10-history-of-webrtc/
