---
date: "2025-01-02"
title: "10 Legendary Easter Eggs in the Tech Industry"
slug: "10-legendary-easter-eggs-in-the-tech-industry"
tags: [ programming, technology, fun, easter-egg ]
---



## Source - [firebrand.training][1]

## Notes
* The First-Ever Egg
  * Warren Robinett, creator of the 1979 game, "Adventure" for the Atari 2600, hid his name in the game itself.Players needed to enter the catacombs and perform a sequence of actions that opened a secret room, revealing his name
* The Best-Hidden Egg
  * Located in Donkey Kong (Atari version), the initials of the game coder, Landon M. Dyer is seen after Mario's demise. It was so well hidden that it took 26 years for public to find it. In fact, the programmer revealed it first.
* The Most Bizzare Egg - Book of Mozilla
  * If you visit `about:mozilla`, the browser will display a red background. Users will then be able to see all sorts of freaky apocalyptic quotes.
  * It's still works to the day. This is what I got:
  > The Beast continued its studies with renewed Focus, building great Reference works and contemplating new Realities. The Beast brought forth its followers and acolytes to create a renewed smaller form of itself and, through Mischievous means, sent it out across the world.
  >
  > from The Book of Mozilla, 6:27
* The Most Complex Egg
  * The "Trials Evolution" game from 2012 contains a complex Easter egg with a riddle leading to a secret song and Morse code message.
  * The Morse code message directs users to a website with another riddle, revealing the coordinates to four cities with hidden chests.
  * The chests contain identical keys, and the riddle's creator claimed a man in an umbrella and hat would bring a chest to Paris in 2113.
* The Longest-Running Egg
  *  Google Search offers humorous easter eggs, such as the "do the barrel roll" command that flips the entire page around.
  * Google Maps and Google Earth contain pop culture references and images, including the flight simulator in Google Earth.
* The Most Popular Egg
  * The famous button sequence `↑↑↓↓←→←→BA` was first used in Konami’s Gradius game.
  * Got famous after Contra, where using the code gives the player 30 lives
  * Was also used in Facebook, Google, Digg, ESPN and some pages of BuzzFeed and Google Stadia.
* The Most Surprising Egg
  * μTorrent has had a secret Tetris game hidden in its official app
  * You could run the game to pass some time, while your download is happening in the background
* The Most Creative Egg
  * Apple included a virtual therapist in Mac's Terminal app, named "emacs," by typing "doctor."
  * Users can ask questions and discuss feelings with the therapist, providing an entertaining and innovative Easter egg.
* The Creepiest Egg
  * Facebook surprised the world with strange messages that appeared in the internal hardware of its Oculus VR headsets.
  * VR controllers were shipped with bizarre messages, along the lines of - `Big Brother is Watching You` or `The Masons Were Here`
  * Facebook claimed they were only meant for Prototypes, but the question comes still - Why in the first place?
* The Most Expensive Egg
  * Someone found an encrypted message on the first block of Bitcoin from Satoshi Nakamoto - `sknab roftuoliab dnoces fo knirb no rollecnahC 9002/naJ/30 semiT ehT`, which is in reverse - `The Times 03/Jan/2009 Chancellor on brink of second bailout for banks.`



  [1]: https://firebrand.training/uk/blog/10-legendary-easter-eggs-in-the-tech-industry
