---
date: "2024-11-03"
title: "5 Tools to Scrape Without Blocking and How it All Works"
slug: "5-tools-to-scrape-without-blocking-and-how-it-all-works"
tags: [ crawling, security, privacy, networks ]
---



## Source - [scrapfly.io][1]

## Notes
* Important part is things on how to avoid getting blocked

### How are Scrapers Detected?
* HTTP Header analysis
* IP Address
* TLS Fingerprint
  * Cloudflare has a very nice post about details of [JA3/JA4 fingerprinting][2]
* JavaScript probing
* Honeypots - Hidden links which are usually ignored by humans, but bots see them and follow them

### Avoiding getting detected

#### Carefully configure HTTP headers
* Ensure the HTTP request header matches a real browser.
* Aim for the common header values of a major browser, such as Chrome on Windows or Safari on MacOS.
* Randomize the header values when scraping at scale, such as User-Agent rotation.
* Ensure the header order matches the regular browser and your HTTP client respects the header order.
* Pay attention to Cookies
* Use HTTP2 if possible

#### Use Proxy IP Address
* Ideally rotating Proxies
* Ideally use higher trust score proxies:
  * Residential - IPs assigned to home networks by internet providers. They have a positive trust score. However, they are expensive to acquire
  * Data-center - IPs assigned to cloud networks by a data center infrastructure, such as AWS, Google, and Azure. They have a negative trust score
  * Mobile - IPs assigned to mobile networks by mobile towers. They have a positive trust score

#### Mimic a JA3/JA4 fingerprint
* Analyze and mimic a web browser handshake, which differs from an HTTP client. The usual suspects are the "Cipher Suite" and "Extensions" fields, which vary from client to client. A popular tool that mocks these fields is the [Curl Impersonate][3].
* The JA3 fingerprinting technique is suitable for tracking software but not individual machines. The main goal is to get identified as a commonly known machine, not like a web scraping framework or a library. You can use the [ScrapFly JA3 fingerprinting][4] tool to test it.

#### Avoiding Javascript probing and fingerprinting
* Ensure commonly known leaks are hidden, such as the default User-Agent string. This can be done using common headless browser patches, such as Puppeteer-stealth.
* Randomize variable values like viewport when web scraping at scale.
* Ensure IP-bound variables like location and timezone match used proxy IP address details.
* Mimic human browsing behavior by adding random intervals of timeouts and mouse moves.

#### Avoiding Honeypots
* To web scrape without getting blocked, avoid requesting unnecessary links and only follow direct ones.



  [1]: https://scrapfly.io/blog/how-to-scrape-without-getting-blocked-tutorial/
  [2]: https://developers.cloudflare.com/bots/concepts/ja3-ja4-fingerprint/
  [3]: https://github.com/lwthiker/curl-impersonate
  [4]: https://scrapfly.io/web-scraping-tools/ja3-fingerprint
