---
date: "2010-11-14"
title: "A nightmare at the dawn"
slug: "a-nightmare-at-the-dawn"
tags: [ learnings, bugs ]
---



It could have been great, but now marked as a bugged release. The worst of the times in the life of a developer when a module or code, written with so much dedication and tested rigorously, is marked as a bugged one (Note: I know the analogy is pretty debatable that if it's tested rigorously, then how come it contains bugs. But the fact remains that some bugs do creep up; especially at the crucial junctures of the product development).

But my case is different because what I wrote does not contain any bugs, rather it did not get bundled along with the delivered module, resulting in the broken functionalities and loop holes. And believe me there is no other terrible feeling like it. You seem to think all sort of stuff like - Why I did not check it for once, How could I miss those, What will happen now, What effect would it make on the project, Wish 8-10 hours earlier, I would have known about it, then I could have bundled it, etc. etc. etc. But they are all wild thoughts of your crazy mind and you know nothing can be done at this point of time. All you can do is to wait for the next iteration when it gets bundled.

However, everyday this guilt feeling is going to come to your mind and would remind of the terrible mistake. And it will be lasting till you deliver the missed code successfully.

The positive side of it that it's a learning of a life time. And like it's said:

> Some things are learned better the hard way.

**Where to go from here?** Take the learning and move ahead. So, if you too have had the same experience, it was perfectly fine what you did. But it would surely be not acceptable if you didn't learn from it. Don't repeat this mistake again - rest you are doing exceptionally well

> If I could go back in time and fix all the mistakes I made, I wouldn't because it has made me who I am today.
