---
date: "2010-09-03"
title: "Twitter's secret"
slug: "twitters-secret"
tags: [ opinion, ideas ]
---



If you think this is going to be the some secret way to connect to [Twitter][1], then you are wrong. This is about the how Twitter got huge attention of the developers and bloggers.

The softwares have become more than means to earn. They have incorporated into our lives so much that at times we cannot imagine any life without them. There would be hardly anyone in the industry who does not know [Google][2]. Why [Google][2]. Take [Twitter][1]. Who is not on it. Even [Sachin Tendulkar][3] finally came to it. With [Twitter][1], our links with the virtual world have got even stronger.

So, what the success strategy behind the Twitter's success. Initially when I heard about twitter and tweeting, I thought - What sort of application is that. Just scribbling some 140 characters to let friends know whats happening in someone's life. But we know what capabilities it has.

The strategy for Twitter's success is letting the user decide the interface what suits him/her. They focused more on the core of the system. They focused less on the non-strategic things like the user interface. Instead they developed the API.

What did they get in turn. Developers developed their own set of interfaces for Twitter thus having a rich set of client applications, competing themselves for the UI and features. There were more ideas and experimentation that Twitter itself could have done at their own expense. But now, then have to pick the client application that most widely used and can negotiate and monetize the usage.

So. In short. Nurture an idea and focus more on the system. Develop a public API and cultivate a developer network. It's a cheap, strategic way to buy a lot of development and innovation.



   [1]: https://www.twitter.com
   [2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google
   [3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sachin_Tendulkar
